Sable Bloodthorn


Sable was born into the very wealthy and powerful Bloodthorn family. In order to maintain their power and status, marriages in the Bloodthorn family were always arranged, and so Sable’s mother Nyx was set to be married to another wealthy tiefling Vex of the Ashborne family.

When Sable was born, with her pale red skin and silvery hair reminiscent of moonlight, not only had Nyx and Vex not yet married, but Sable did not resemble Vex in the slightest, with his pale grey skin and jet black hair. Condemning Nyx further, Sable seemed to be a replica of another that had been close to Nyx.  Her childhood friend and training partner Lucian (for all Bloodthorns trained from a young age to fight), who was the young tiefling’s true lover.

If it was only for the backlash Nyx would face, she would gladly do it, but she knew that Sable would never be accepted as a true daughter of the Bloodthorn family. As Sable grew in her belly, Nyx suffered greatly with the decision of what to do, the dilemma of how to protect her unborn child. She also suffered, because she was confronted with the hard truth that she would never be allowed to love Lucian, who was kind and gentle but also fiercely passionate and loyal, compared with cold and heartless Vex, her soon-to-be husband who always looked at Nyx as less than even though she was the superior fighter.

With Sable on the way, it became evident to her that to save Lucian from the heartache she would soon face, she would need to let him go, or rather force him to leave her. She knew how it would break him to lose their child, this beautiful but impossible future of theirs, but she knew that Lucian would never leave her if she simply asked him to, so she took a page from Vex’s book. She became cold and unfeeling. She devoted herself to her training with him, working to surpass him and boasting cruelly when she would best him in combat, only to distance herself from him outside of their training. This nearly broke her, but knowing how Lucian would not only suffer emotionally if he knew the truth but also be punished severely for their affair, allowed her to remain strong and resign herself to a life of nothingness. No love, no passion, and no true sense of family. All of the things that she was determined for her daughter to have.

A clever girl, Nyx managed to hide her pregnancy from everyone, and all the while she searched and searched for a way to give her unborn child the life she deserved. About halfway through her pregnancy, she met a kind-spirited water genasi healer who aided her throughout the remainder of her exceptionally difficult pregnancy. The healer’s name was Delphine and she was incredibly sensitive and empathetic to Nyx’s situation; she quickly became her confidant and her closest friend.

Delphine, aware of Nyx’s impossible predicament, eventually offered to adopt Sable, not wanting her dear friend’s child to suffer as Nyx did. Nyx, who had come to know Delphine well and knew that her child would be safe and happy and loved in her care, agreed with a heavy heart as this life, the life Sable could have with Delphine, was all she ever wanted for her child.

When the time came, Delphine helped deliver Sable in secret after Nyx’s difficult labor took her well into the night. Nyx had only one night with her newborn daughter, and it was both the saddest and most joyful night of her life. She felt she’d never known true love until laying her eyes upon her beautiful daughter’s face, which so resembled Lucian’s. She told herself she should be grateful for the brief moments she shared with her daughter, but every minute was as agonizing as it was beautiful. By the time morning came, Delphine had left with Sable carrying nothing but a small bundle of clothes and necessities for the both of them and a handwritten note from Nyx that she was to hold onto for Sable until she was ready.

Delphine took Sable back to her hometown where within a year, she had reconnected with her first love, married him, and became pregnant with her first biological child Selkie.

Through their childhood, Sable and Selkie became inseparable, only being about a year and a half apart, although they were markedly different. Sable always knew she was adopted and that she was different from her family, but she never really understood why no matter how hard she tried, she could never fit in, even a little. Selkie was gentle and patient, whereas Sable was impulsive and always quick to hold a grudge. Selkie began training to become a healer, while Sable felt she ruined everything she touched. Selkie was soft at heart, but Sable was strong, her will unbending, stubborn, too stubborn for her own good sometimes. Despite her obvious ineligibility, she was placed down the healing path like her sister, but unlike her sister who excelled, she failed at every step of the way. She became discouraged, frustrated, she wanted desperately to be like her family but it felt like the harder she tried, the more clear their differences became. She was however remarkable smart and clever, and determined steadfastly. And soon, with no other outlet, she turned to petty crimes and odd jobs as this relied on her ability to outsmart her counterparts, and anticipate their next move. Something she found she was very good at.

She became known for her remarkable, efficient work, and by the young age of 16, she had gained network of well-paying customers. Sable so enjoyed being good at something, that she forgot how dangerous it could be, what she was doing. One day in preparation for a larger job, she planned to scope out the scene before finalizing her plan, and she took Selkie along with her. Sable wasn’t especially keen on bringing her sister along, but Selkie looked up to Sable and had begged to go. Sable, who was not much older, still young and naïve, finally agreed.

But things turned sour quickly. They were caught off guard by a group of people that Sable did not recognize, but who were clearly already expecting them. A part of her brain registered that this had possibly been some sort of trap, that she had gotten too cocky, too greedy in her rise to notoriety and that this very well could be an attempt to knock her off her throne. But the larger part of her brain only thought of the danger she had put Selkie in. Luckily Selkie had remained mostly out of view, she was safe and hidden, and it was Sable who took the brunt of the initial ambush. Sable was stabbed in the stomach, and bleeding profusely. Her vision was becoming blurry as she began to bleed out, but she could see the strange group retreating, most likely assuming that she was as good as dead. And she supposed she was. But she was grateful that it was her, her and not Selkie. She couldn’t tell Selkie to run or stay hidden as she wanted to, for fear of giving away her location as the dangerous strangers were still close at hand but she felt peace in knowing that Selkie was smart and would be able to take care of herself and wait for the right moment.

What she did not take into account, was that Selkie was uncompromisingly brave in a way that Sable felt she never would be. Soon she saw Selkie running to her, right out in the open, to save her. Selkie was young, but had advanced far in her healing training so she knew just enough to stabilize Sable. But just as Sable was getting to her feet, her sister collapsed forward on to her, and it was then that Sable could see the arrow, piercing her back where her heart was.
 
Sable was no healer, she could do nothing but watch her younger sister’s life leave her body. She didn’t see who shot Selkie, as the men by this point were all gone. She wanted nothing more than to hunt them down and rip their bodies apart, destroy their existence as they had done to Selkie. But she knew she had to get Selkie away from there. Maybe a part of her hoped she would survive somehow.

Selkie, as Sable carried her away, used the last of her energy to tell her not to blame herself, not to lose herself over this. Even in her dying moments, she was looking out for her sister, and it made Sable hate herself more. She held Selkie in her arms as she gave her last breath, and then she cried, sobbed. For the first time in her life, and for the last time. Sable broke in that moment. For good. She’d always known she was no good, but she never imagined her knack for destruction would extend to the person she loved the most.

When her family discovered what happened, that Selkie had been lost, they exiled Sable. They never wanted to see her again. But before she left, Delphine did give her the note that her mother had written her all those years ago. It was in a sealed envelope, weathered and slightly torn from it’s age. Sable wouldn’t dare open it. The only thing left from the mother who abandoned her. She the way she saw it, she’d gone without one piece of advice from her mother her whole life, she surely didn’t need it now. Though she didn’t care to open the letter, she couldn’t help but notice the stamped seal. The embossed “B.” She tried to ignore the curiosity that flickered inside of her as she stuffed the envelope deep into her pack.
And for the next several years, she continue to bury that curiosity. Every day. As she grew her reputation for being the person you went to when a job needed doing, she suppressed the part of her who dare wanted for more. The desire to know more, the desire for some connection. It wasn’t something she could afford. If she ever did find her birth mother. Well, that would mean she could lose her again. Lose yet another person. And losing someone she loved was something she vowed to never do again.






